Dear Rachel,

I am writing to you about in the hope that you can help me.

I have been studying information technology for a bit over a year now,
everything from computer science, to system maintenance, to building
websites. 

As you know I have been playing and teaching piano over the last 12
years, I actually picked up the piano at age 20, till then I was a
maths major at Uni and a computer buff. I have always kept up with the
technology more or less since then, and even picked up programming a
few times, but was mainly focused on music and the piano. 

As I said, since a year or so I have begun to turn back to my earlier
interests. The reasons for this change are wide ranging, involving
family circumstances, my personal life and ambitions, but one of the
main motivations is that I just find it so incredibly interesting. I
like solving problems, I always have.

Finding work and experience is going to be hard for me, however I want
to slowly but surely get a bit of traction in the IT industry. 

Now I hope you don't think I am being to forward here, but I was
wondering if there was anything at Mamre I could do to get some
experience with working with computers in a professional environment. 

Since I don't have a IT CV here are some tidbits about why I might be of
help at Mamre:

Julie sometimes comes home with stories about computer trouble at work
which I am sure have the skills to resolve quite easily.

I studied the basic Microsoft certifications, on both Windows
desktop and Server, as well as the Cisco networking and Linux
certifications and am preparing to take the exams next year. 

I am really a programmer at heart and really like building customized
solutions for specific problems. 

I know I can listen well and get to the heart of a problem quickly. I
also am good at explaining things in simple terms (including to
'mature age women', my Julie told me to write that).

I made an Excel spreadsheet initially for my own use at Multicap to
keep track of my shifts and to easily produce my time sheets, but over
time generalized it so it could be used for all people working at a
house. The team leader enters the roster, and the time sheets are
automatically produced for all shift workers. This time sheet has now
been rolled out across Multicap. I am in the process of making
version 2, which is web based. Multicap is interested, however it
should be usable at any organisation that employs shift workers. 

I am in the process of building up a body of (programming work) which
is hosted on the web as open source projects. I know this is not
immediately relevant for Mamre but I am comfortable in several
computer languages, such as javascript, lisp, c and java.

I am currently developing a website for Julie which should be finished
this week where she can display her art and sell it. It will have a
fully functioning online shop and blog. I can write the code for a web
site, however I am not a designer so I used Drupal to build the site,
and a ready made layout and theme. I think a Drupal website would be a
good idea for Mamre since it lets people edit their own content. 

I imagine that most people at Mamre are using their computer for not
much more than some word processing, browsing the web and emailing,
and some basic database access. Am I right in thinking that the IT
person is mostly help desk to them? 

The people that have more complex computer needs are I imagine HR and
finances. The two requirements there are reliability and
automation. The data has to be always there, computers have to always
work, and repetitive data entry should be avoided as much as
possible. I would really like to think about how to achieve those
objectives. I know that at Multicap they still live with one foot in
the eighties, computers everywhere, but not much automation. Lots of
paperwork that gets processed by hand. 

I imagine that the third challenge at Mamre would be
networking. Everybody should be able to access all data relevant to
them from anywhere. Plus this should not be overly dependant on Mamre
hardware since that can fail. I know that (my) Julie still is relying on
USB sticks for carrying data around. I feel that a lot of these kinds
of data should be and can be securely stored on the web, and people
could easily be trained to use these technologies.

Now what I am hoping is that I can get some work experience at Mamre,
maybe by teaming up with your current IT person for a while, or by 
relieving her of some of her duties when she is busy with other things. 
If this is not possible I still would like to show you my roster application 
at some time in the future, since I feel it could be useful to Mamre. I 
also would like to find out if there are other areas where I can think about 
and maybe produce some custom solutions to make people's lives easier, in
IT terms. 

Although I don't have a degree in computer science this is not
uncommon in the industry which is largely skill based and self-taught 
however I do think I have some things to offer to Mamre and its staff, 
so I hope you  will give this letter some consideration and thought. 

Kind regards,

Michiel van Oosten




